# CS-300-Analysis-and-Design

This class was a lot more fun than previous classes that dealt with less programming and more concepts. I enjoyed applying the same data to differenct data structures to understand how each data structure was implemented and used. Having the same data for each module allowed easier comparision to the advantages and disadvantages of each data structure.

**What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?**
In this course, we were tasked with comparing and contrasting different computer science data structures against the same data. Each week we had a new data structure, allowing us to see how the programs interacted with that data. We compared the data structure concepts, the speed of loading the data into the structure, and the time and memory needed to sort that data and display it.
**How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.**
I have always appreciated lists, arrays, and vectors as a simple solutions to hold onto many variables simultaneously. If there was an issue where many pieces of data needed to be stored and accessed later, I always resorted to a list, then iterated over that list. With this course, I understand that this may be fine for small list sizes but dramatically slows down performance and runtime as that list grows. However, having experimented with binary search trees and linked lists, I can see that these data structures have a lot of benefits over arrays or vectors. 
**How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?**
Roadblocks certainly happened. Fortunately, either my use case was common, or my google search terms were accurate, I could find a solution or a concept or approach that allowed me to view the issue differently. Sometimes the best thing you can do is abandon a process for one that has a more direct finish line. I mean that it may be harder to make what you started work than trying a completely different method with a better direction or more straightforward concept to understand. Unfortunately, I tend to overcomplicate some things and hope they work.
**How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?**
As I stated earlier, much of my previous programs or scripts revolved around vectors and lists. Understanding the data structures that aid in the program's performance will evolve much of my programs to use different, more efficient data structures
**How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? **
To aid in using data structures and improve the simplicity of my programs, I aim to separate the work among several files. One file with thousands of lines can be frustrating to maintain (especially in my work). Dispersing the workload among several files will allow my sanity to stay intact when debugging. This has another benefit for allowing me to simply swap out a data structure file for another data structure depending on the program's need. Also, adding functionality by adding files and then integrating them into the main file. I really got to dig in and apply this method to these programs and see the value of appropriately named files with different roles to play.
